6.0 English From BBC Learning English.com
Hello, this is 6 Minute English from BBC Learning English, I'm Neil
And I'm Beth. As a society, we're obsessed with our skin
But the pursuit of perfect skin can make life difficult for people who struggle with skin conditions
Sports, Zits or Pimpals. There are many names for the red inflamed marks which appear on the face and neck
But the medical term is acne. Acne is a skin condition which can affect anyone
It often happens between the ages of 14 and 19 but can continue into adulthood
There are many types of acne from blackheads and whiteheads to more severe forms of cysts and scarring
But whatever the type of acne looking different from others can be emotionally damaging
Especially during the teenage years when our self-image and physical appearance are changing
In this program we'll be hearing from a skin doctor or dermatologist who suffered acne herself
And as usual we'll be learning some useful new vocabulary too
But first I have a question for you, Beth.
Mild or moderate acne is very common in teenagers and young adults
So according to the UK's National Health Service
What proportion of people aged 11 to 30 experience some amount of acne?
Is it a 75%
B 85% or c 95%
Or I'm going to guess that it is c 95%.
Okay Beth will find out if that's the correct answer at the end of the program
Dr. Sharon Crichtschlo is a dermatologist originally from Barbados
As someone who grew up with acne she understands the impact it can have on a person's mental health
As she explains here to BBC World Service program the conversation
Well we know for sure that it does stand to arise from puberty onwards
So the biggest cohort of patients is in the teenage age group
However a proportion of patients up to 20 or so percent certainly in females
It will persist well into the 30s, 40s much longer than people often give it credit for
And we also know that it has a huge psychological impact
So even mild to moderate acne because it affects teenagers who are quite emotionally vulnerable
It affects their friendships, their peer groups and so it should never really be trivialised
acne tends to start during puberty the stage in people's lives when they develop from a child into an adult
Because of changes in their body
Hormones such as testosterone which are released into the body during puberty often cause acne to appear
Of course puberty involves emotional as well as physical changes
acne can be harder to live with for someone who is emotionally vulnerable
Meaning someone who gets their feelings hurt easily
acne affects your confidence and how you interact with the world
So it shouldn't be trivialised or made to seem less important than it really is
At times most teenagers are self-conscious about their looks
And having acne adds to social pressure
acne is largely genetic and the buildup of oil and bacteria in the pores of the skin
Which causes spots is due to hormones which are completely natural
Here's Dr. Sharon Crichlow again telling BBC World Service program the conversation
How her own experience with acne led her to help others with the same problem
I didn't have the luxury of being able to see a dermatologist when I was younger
My family simply couldn't afford it so I had to get through it as best I could
And you just tried everything over the conctor etc
And I just felt if I could help people with something that has been such a pain of my life
And having that inside experience as well
So I would often tell my patients pretty much anything I recommend to them
I've tried it myself I can tell them it works
Growing up Dr. Crichlow didn't have anyone to help her get through acne
If you get through something, you managed to survive a difficult experience or challenging period of life
Instead, she got whatever medicine she could buy without a doctor's prescription
Known as over the counter medicines from her local pharmacy
Dr. Crichlow calls acne the bane of my life
An idiom meaning the cause of unhappiness or misfortune
But as she grew older and her acne improved, she used her experience to support her patients in the UK
For most people acne stops as they grow older
But remember it's completely natural and you're not alone
Which reminds me of my question, Beth
What proportion of 11 to 30 year olds get acne to some extent?
You said it was 95% which was the correct answer
Okay, let's recap the vocabulary we've learned starting with puberty
The stage of life when a person changes from a child to an adult
Someone who is emotionally vulnerable has their feelings and emotions easily hurt
The verb to trivialize means to make something seem less important than it really is
If you get through it, you managed to survive a difficult experience or period of life
Over the counter medicines can be bought in a shop without a doctor's prescription
And finally the idiom, the bane of my life
Refers to a source of persistent unhappiness or misfortune
Once again, our six minutes are up
But remember to join us again next time for more trending topics
And useful vocabulary here at six minutes English
Goodbye for now
Bye
Thank you